README.md, before:

<h1 align="center">
<img width="40" valign="bottom" src="https://ultimatecourses.com/static/icons/angular.svg">
Angular Pro: Final App Seed
</h1>
<h4 align="center">Seed app for fitness manager application using Angular v4+ and AngularFire2.</h4>

---

<a href="https://ultimatecourses.com" target="_blank"><img src="https://ultimatecourses.com/static/banners/ultimate-angular-leader-old.svg"></a>

---

> This repo serves as the seed project for the Ultimate Angular Pro course as well as the final solution in a separate branch, come and [learn advanced Angular](https://ultimatecourses.com/courses/angular) architecture!

[Setup and install](#setup-and-install) |
[Tasks](#tasks) |
[Snippets](#snippets) |
[Firebase Config](#firebase-config) |
[Resources](#resources)

## Setup and install

Fork this repo from inside GitHub so you can commit directly to your account, or simply download the `.zip` bundle with the contents inside.

#### Dependency installation

During the time building this project, you'll need development dependencies of which run on Node.js, follow the steps below for setting everything up (if you have some of these already, skip to the next step where appropriate):

1. Download and install [Node.js here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) for Windows or for Mac.
2. Install Firebase CLI on the command-line with `npm install -g firebase-tools`

That's about it for tooling you'll need to run the project, let's move onto the project install.

#### Project installation and server

Now you've pulled down the repo and have everything setup, using the terminal you'll need to `cd` into the directory that you cloned the repo into and run some quick tasks:

```
cd <angular-pro-app>
yarn install
# OR
npm install
```

This will then setup all the development and production dependencies we need.

Now simply run this to boot up the server:

```
yarn start
# OR
npm start
```

## Tasks

A quick reminder of all tasks available:

#### Development server

```
yarn start
# OR
npm start
```

#### Production build (compile AoT)

```
yarn build:production
# OR
npm run build:production
```

#### Deploying to Firebase

You'll need to ensure you're logged into Firebase first (if you are prompted, otherwise skip to next step):

```
firebase login
```

To deploy (after running build task):

```
firebase deploy
```

## Snippets

Here are some [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com) snippets I'm using whilst recording this application, these help speed up boilerplate creation for things such as components, modules and services.

> Here's how to [install the snippets](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets#_creating-your-own-snippets) in VSCode. Add them to `typescript.json` when prompted for which language the snippets are for.

```json
{
  "@Component": {
    "prefix": "@Component",
    "description": "Creates a component definition",
    "body": [
      "import { Component } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@Component({",
      "\tselector: '${1:selector-name}',",
      "\tstyleUrls: ['${1:selector-name}.component.scss'],",
      "\ttemplate: `",
      "\t\t<div>",
      "\t\t\t",
      "\t\t</div>",
      "\t`",
      "})",
      "export class ${3:Name}Component {",
      "\tconstructor() {}",
      "}"
    ]
  },
  "@Injectable": {
    "prefix": "@Injectable",
    "description": "Creates an @Injectable service",
    "body": [
      "import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@Injectable()",
      "export class ${1:Name}Service {",
      "\tconstructor() {}",
      "}"
    ]
  },
  "@NgModule": {
    "prefix": "@NgModule",
    "description": "Creates an @NgModule",
    "body": [
      "import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@NgModule({",
      "\timports: [],",
      "\tdeclarations: [],",
      "\tproviders: []",
      "})",
      "export class ${1:Name}Module {}"
    ]
  },
  "@Pipe": {
    "prefix": "@Pipe",
    "description": "Creates an @Pipe",
    "body": [
      "import { Pipe, PipeTransform } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@Pipe({",
      "\tname: '${1:selector-name}'",
      "})",
      "export class ${2:Name}Pipe implements PipeTransform {",
      "\ttransform(value: any) {",
      "\t\t$0",
      "\t}",
      "}"
    ]
  }
}
```

## Firebase Config

#### database.rules.json

```
{
  "rules": {
    "users": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid"
      }
    },
    "schedule": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".indexOn": [
          "timestamp"
        ]
      }
    },
    "meals": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid"
      }
    },
    "workouts": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### firebase.json

```
{
  "database": {
    "rules": "database.rules.json"
  },
  "hosting": {
    "public": "",
    "ignore": [
      "firebase.json",
      ".firebaserc",
      ".vscode",
      ".git",
      ".gitignore",
      ".editorconfig",
      "src/**/.*",
      "database.rules.json",
      "package.json",
      "README.md",
      "tsconfig.json",
      "webpack.config.js",
      "yarn.lock",
      "**/node_modules/**"
    ],
    "rewrites": [
      {
        "source": "**",
        "destination": "/index.html"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Resources

There are several resources used inside this project, of which you can read further about to dive deeper or understand in more detail what they are:

* [Angular](https://angular.io)
* [Firebase Docs](https://firebase.google.com/docs/)
* [Firebase CLI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli/)
* [AngularFire2 Repo/Docs](https://github.com/angular/angularfire2)
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
* [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)

Commit message:

updated readme to handle different node version requirements

README.md, after:

<h1 align="center">
<img width="40" valign="bottom" src="https://ultimatecourses.com/static/icons/angular.svg">
Angular Pro: Final App Seed
</h1>
<h4 align="center">Seed app for fitness manager application using Angular v4+ and AngularFire2.</h4>

---

<a href="https://ultimatecourses.com" target="_blank"><img src="https://ultimatecourses.com/static/banners/ultimate-angular-leader-old.svg"></a>

---

> This repo serves as the seed project for the Ultimate Angular Pro course as well as the final solution in a separate branch, come and [learn advanced Angular](https://ultimatecourses.com/courses/angular) architecture!

[Setup and install](#setup-and-install) |
[Tasks](#tasks) |
[Snippets](#snippets) |
[Firebase Config](#firebase-config) |
[Resources](#resources)

## Setup and install

Fork this repo from inside GitHub so you can commit directly to your account, or simply download the `.zip` bundle with the contents inside.

#### Dependency installation

During the time building this project, you'll need development dependencies of which run on Node.js, follow the steps below for setting everything up (if you have some of these already, skip to the next step where appropriate):

1. Download and install [Node.js here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) for Windows or for Mac.
2. Install Firebase CLI on the command-line with `npm install -g firebase-tools`

That's about it for tooling you'll need to run the project, let's move onto the project install.

#### Project installation and server

Now you've pulled down the repo and have everything setup, using the terminal you'll need to `cd` into the directory that you cloned the repo into and run some quick tasks:

```
cd <angular-pro-app>
yarn install
# OR
npm install
```

This will then setup all the development and production dependencies we need.

Now simply run this to boot up the server:

```
yarn start
# OR
npm start
```

## Tasks

A quick reminder of all tasks available:

#### Development server

```
yarn start
# OR
npm start
```

#### Production build (compile AoT)

```
yarn build:production
# OR
npm run build:production
```

#### Deploying to Firebase

> BR: run `sudo n` to set node js version to latest(16.13.0 in my case) before running firebase commands. Set it back to 8.12.0 to run yarn install, yarn build:production etc., commands.

You'll need to ensure you're logged into Firebase first (if you are prompted, otherwise skip to next step):

```
firebase login
```

To deploy (after running build task):

```
firebase deploy
```

## Snippets

Here are some [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com) snippets I'm using whilst recording this application, these help speed up boilerplate creation for things such as components, modules and services.

> Here's how to [install the snippets](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/userdefinedsnippets#_creating-your-own-snippets) in VSCode. Add them to `typescript.json` when prompted for which language the snippets are for.

```json
{
  "@Component": {
    "prefix": "@Component",
    "description": "Creates a component definition",
    "body": [
      "import { Component } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@Component({",
      "\tselector: '${1:selector-name}',",
      "\tstyleUrls: ['${1:selector-name}.component.scss'],",
      "\ttemplate: `",
      "\t\t<div>",
      "\t\t\t",
      "\t\t</div>",
      "\t`",
      "})",
      "export class ${3:Name}Component {",
      "\tconstructor() {}",
      "}"
    ]
  },
  "@Injectable": {
    "prefix": "@Injectable",
    "description": "Creates an @Injectable service",
    "body": [
      "import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@Injectable()",
      "export class ${1:Name}Service {",
      "\tconstructor() {}",
      "}"
    ]
  },
  "@NgModule": {
    "prefix": "@NgModule",
    "description": "Creates an @NgModule",
    "body": [
      "import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@NgModule({",
      "\timports: [],",
      "\tdeclarations: [],",
      "\tproviders: []",
      "})",
      "export class ${1:Name}Module {}"
    ]
  },
  "@Pipe": {
    "prefix": "@Pipe",
    "description": "Creates an @Pipe",
    "body": [
      "import { Pipe, PipeTransform } from '@angular/core';",
      "",
      "@Pipe({",
      "\tname: '${1:selector-name}'",
      "})",
      "export class ${2:Name}Pipe implements PipeTransform {",
      "\ttransform(value: any) {",
      "\t\t$0",
      "\t}",
      "}"
    ]
  }
}
```

## Firebase Config

#### database.rules.json

```
{
  "rules": {
    "users": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid"
      }
    },
    "schedule": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".indexOn": [
          "timestamp"
        ]
      }
    },
    "meals": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid"
      }
    },
    "workouts": {
      "$uid": {
        ".read": "$uid === auth.uid",
        ".write": "$uid === auth.uid"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

#### firebase.json

```
{
  "database": {
    "rules": "database.rules.json"
  },
  "hosting": {
    "public": "",
    "ignore": [
      "firebase.json",
      ".firebaserc",
      ".vscode",
      ".git",
      ".gitignore",
      ".editorconfig",
      "src/**/.*",
      "database.rules.json",
      "package.json",
      "README.md",
      "tsconfig.json",
      "webpack.config.js",
      "yarn.lock",
      "**/node_modules/**"
    ],
    "rewrites": [
      {
        "source": "**",
        "destination": "/index.html"
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

## Resources

There are several resources used inside this project, of which you can read further about to dive deeper or understand in more detail what they are:

* [Angular](https://angular.io)
* [Firebase Docs](https://firebase.google.com/docs/)
* [Firebase CLI](https://firebase.google.com/docs/cli/)
* [AngularFire2 Repo/Docs](https://github.com/angular/angularfire2)
* [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)
* [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)
